{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12120\viewh11680\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \cb3 The only truly extraneous variable would the "Experimental Replicate", as this means the sample cages were set up separately from separate pools of bees. The experiments were performed in the same rooms, however, by the same people. Within an experiment, the timing of sampling was identical.\
\
In addition to that, I put some other data. The Day 3% mortality is the proportion of the bees in the cage that had died by 72 hours post infection (hpi). \'a0 The bees used for the RNA seq were collected at 36 hpi, so the deaths that occured were of other bees but from the same cage.\'a0 I bolded a few that stood out as outliers - i.e., those from control groups that had extra high mortality or those from virus-treated groups that had extra high or low mortality. These could mean that either some extra stress happened (killing control bees) or the virus-treated bees didn't really get treated.\
\
I also provide data on virus titers for Sacbrood virus (SBV) and Israeli acute paralysis virus (IAPV).\'a0 These are log scaled values of the estimated starting quantity of virus (roughly the # of viruses in a sample).\'a0 Again, I have bolded those that stand out against the rest of their cohorts, i.e., controls with very high titers or treated bees with strangely low.\
\
Here is the file with the estimated concentration of RNA submitted and the RIN value from bioanalyzer.\'a0 You will see the concentration is listed at 400 for many samples, but not all.\'a0 After the bioanalyzer readout, I was suggested to reduce the concentration to 400ug/ul if it was over that - so I added water in accordance to bring any more concentrated samples to that.\'a0 Some were lower, but still within acceptable levels, so they did not get water added.\'a0 Does that make sense?\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 RIN value: Numbers from \'921\'92 to \'9210\'92 were used as labels. \'9210\'92 stands for a perfect RNA sample without any degradation products, whereas \'921\'92 marks a completely degraded sample.}